New CSS module page: `will-change` (#44210)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/reference/properties/will-change/index.md

sidebar: cssref
---

> The **`will-change`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property enables optimizing animations by providing a rendering hint to the user agent about how an element is expected to change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`will-change`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property enables optimizing animations by providing a rendering hint to a browser about how an element is expected to change.
```

### Values

The value is either `auto` or one or more comma separated `<animateable-feature>` values:

- `auto`

>   - : The default value. The browser applies whatever heuristics and optimizations it normally does.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : Indicates that the browser applies whatever heuristics and optimizations it normally does. This is the default value.
```

- `<animateable-feature>`

>   - : Either `scroll-position`, `contents`, or a {{cssxref("custom-ident")}} matching for the name of a built-in CSS property.

Reviewer: or instead of repeating:

```suggestion
  - : Represents one of the following:
```

    - `scroll-position`

>       - : The scroll position of the element is expected to change in the near future, indicating the browser can optimize the rendering of overflowing content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - : Specifies that the scroll position of the element is expected to change in the near future, indicating the browser can optimize the rendering of overflowing content.
```

    - `contents`

>       - : The element's contents, including all the elements in its subtree, are expected to change in the near future, indicating the browser can cache the element less aggressively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - : Specifies that the element's contents, including all the elements in its subtree, are expected to change in the near future, indicating the browser can cache the element less aggressively.
```

    - {{cssxref("custom-ident", "&lt;custom-ident&gt;")}}

>       - : The name of a CSS property, as an {{cssxref("ident")}}, whose value will be animated or otherwise change in the near future. If the `<ident>` given represents a property shorthand, all of its longhand components are applied. The value cannot be `will-change`, `none`, `all` `auto`, `scroll-position`, or `contents`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - : Specifies the name of a CSS property, as an {{cssxref("ident")}}, whose value is animated or otherwise expected to change in the near future. If the specified `<ident>` represents a property shorthand, all of its longhand components are applied. The value cannot be `will-change`, `none`, `all`, `auto`, `scroll-position`, or `contents`.
```

## Description

> The `will-change` property provides a rendering hint to the browser indicating which properties are expected to be animated or otherwise changed. This enables browser to create the necessary rendering optimizations to enable smoother changes, and avoid {{glossary("jank")}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `will-change` property provides a rendering hint to the browser indicating which properties are expected to be animated or otherwise changed. This enables browsers to create the necessary rendering optimizations to enable smoother changes and avoid {{glossary("jank")}}.
```

> The `will-change` property is aimed at improving rendering performance. This property can improve performance for elements with frequent repaints and reflows or complex visual effects like {{cssxref("box-shadow")}} and {{cssxref("clip-path")}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `will-change` property is aimed at improving rendering performance. This property can improve performance for elements with frequent repaints and reflows or for those that use properties such as {{cssxref("box-shadow")}} and {{cssxref("clip-path")}} to create complex visual effects.
```

> Applying the property to an element applies the value to the element's entire subtree, indicating any of the descendants can change. For this reason, applying a non-`auto` value on a large section, such at the {{htmlelement("body")}}, can actually be bad for a page's performance. Instead,limit the use of this property to deeply nested elements, containing as little of the document as possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Applying the property to an element applies the value to the element's entire subtree, indicating that any of the descendants can change. For this reason, applying a non-`auto` value on a large section, such as the {{htmlelement("body")}}, can actually be bad for a page's performance. Instead, limit the use of this property to deeply nested elements, containing as little of the document as possible.
```

> [!WARNING]

> > The `will-change` property is intended to be used as a last resort, in order to try to deal with existing performance problems. It should not be used to anticipate performance problems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Use the `will-change` property as a last resort to try to deal with existing performance problems. Don't use it to anticipate performance problems.
```

> Proper usage of this property can be a bit tricky:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Proper usage of this property can be a bit tricky. Keep the following guidelines in mind:
```

> - _Don't apply will-change to too many elements._ The browser already tries as hard as it can to optimize everything. Some of the stronger optimizations that are likely to be tied to `will-change` end up using a lot of a machine's resources, and when overused like this can cause the page to slow down or consume a lot of resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Don't apply `will-change` to too many elements**: The browser already tries as hard as it can to optimize everything. Some of the stronger optimizations that are likely to be tied to `will-change` end up using a lot of a machine's resources. Overusing the property can cause the page to slow down instead of improving it's performance.
```

> - _Use sparingly._ The normal behavior for optimizations that the browser make is to remove the optimizations as soon as it can and revert back to normal. But adding `will-change` directly in a stylesheet implies that the targeted elements are always a few moments away from changing and the browser will keep the optimizations for much longer time than it would have otherwise. So it is a good practice to switch `will-change` on and off using script code before and after the change occurs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Use sparingly**: The browser's normal behavior for optimizations is to remove the optimizations as soon as it can and revert to normal state. But adding `will-change` directly to a stylesheet implies that the targeted elements are always a few moments away from changing and the browser will keep the optimizations for a much longer time than it would have otherwise. So it is a good practice to switch `will-change` on and off using script code before and after the change occurs.
```

> - _Don't apply will-change to elements to perform premature optimization_. If your page is performing well, don't add the `will-change` property to elements just to wring out a little more speed. `will-change` is intended to be used as something of a last resort, in order to try to deal with existing performance problems. It should not be used to anticipate performance problems. Excessive use of `will-change` will result in excessive memory use and will cause more complex rendering to occur as the browser attempts to prepare for the possible change. This will lead to worse performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Don't apply will-change to elements to perform premature optimization**: If your page is performing well, don't add the `will-change` property to elements just to wring out a little more speed. `will-change` is intended to be used as a last resort to try to deal with existing performance problems. It should not be used to anticipate performance problems. Excessive use of `will-change` will result in excessive memory use and will cause more complex rendering to occur as the browser attempts to prepare for the possible change. This will lead to worse performance.
```

> - _Give it sufficient time to work_. This property is intended as a method for authors to let the user-agent know about properties that are likely to change ahead of time. Then the browser can choose to apply any ahead-of-time optimizations required for the property change before the property change actually happens. So it is important to give the browser some time to actually do the optimizations. Find some way to predict at least slightly ahead of time that something will change, and set `will-change` then.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Give it sufficient time to work**: This property enables you to signal to the browser about properties that are likely to change, so the browser can choose to apply any ahead-of-time optimizations before the property change occurs. For this reason, you should give the browser some time to do the optimizations. Predict slightly ahead of time that something will change, and then set `will-change`.
```

> - _Be aware, that will-change may actually influence the visual appearance of elements_, when used with property values, that create a [stacking context](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Positioned_layout/Stacking_context) (e.g., will-change: opacity), as the stacking context is created up front.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Be aware that `will-change` may influence the visual appearance of elements**: When used with property values that create a [stacking context](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Positioned_layout/Stacking_context) (e.g., `will-change: opacity`), the stacking context is created up front.
```

### Animations

> If applying `will-change` to improve animations, add the property before the start of the animation. Animated properties behave as if included in a set `will-change` property value. For this reason, there is no reason to add the property within your {{cssxref("@keyframes")}} animation definitions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If applying `will-change` to improve animations, add the property before the animation starts, not within the {{cssxref("@keyframes")}} animation definitions. Animated properties are treated as if they're already included in a `will-change`, so there's no reason to add them there.
```

## Examples

### Basic usage

> This example demonstrates basic CSS application of the `will-change` property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates the basic CSS application of the `will-change` property.
```

#### CSS

> We use CSS to apply the `will-change` property to our `#element`, proving a hint to the browse that the {{cssxref("transform")}} and {{cssxref("opacity")}} property values will be animated or otherwise change in the near future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use CSS to apply the `will-change` property to the `#element`, providing a hint to the browser that the {{cssxref("transform")}} and {{cssxref("opacity")}} property values will be animated or otherwise change in the near future.
```

```css
#element {
  willchange: transform, opacity;
}
```

### Via script

This example shows how to apply the `will-change` property when needed and remove optimizations when done using JavaScript, which is generally how `will-change` should be applied.

#### JavaScript

> We use JavaScript to add the `will-change` property to our `#element` when the element is hovered by using the {{domxref("Element/mouseenter_event", "mouseenter")}} event. Setting `will-change` to `transform, opacity` tells the browser to optimize for changes to the {{cssxref("transform")}} and {{cssxref("opacity")}} properties. When the {{domxref("Element/animationend_event", "animationend")}} event occurs, our script sets the value to `auto`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use JavaScript to add the `will-change` property to `#element` when the element is hovered over by using the {{domxref("Element/mouseenter_event", "mouseenter")}} event. Setting `will-change` to `transform, opacity` tells the browser to optimize for changes to the {{cssxref("transform")}} and {{cssxref("opacity")}} properties. When the {{domxref("Element/animationend_event", "animationend")}} event occurs, our script sets the value to `auto`.
```
